<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Financial &#38; Legal</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">

    <div class="title-area">
      <p class="chapter-number"><em class="sky">chapter three</em></p>
      <h1 class="navy">Financial &#38; Legal</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="body-copy">
      <p>This is the chapter in which I try to convince you that you need an accountant. As you read through this chapter note that these situations and routines are <em>descriptive</em> not <em>prescriptive</em> (you&#8217;ll hear me say this again). Depending on your business structure and the amount of revenue your circumstances may vary.</p>
      <h3>Salary</h3>
      <p>When you get to <em>Chapters 7 &#38; 8</em> you&#8217;ll notice a large expense category labeled <em>Salary.</em> This is what I paid myself from my business. To be clear this is the money I took from my business account and put into my personal account in the same way that any company pays its employees. That money is no longer my company&#8217;s, but mine. Note that I did this this way because I was set up as an S Corporation. Depending on your legal structure you may do things differently. Talk to an accountant and they can help you determine the best structure for where you are and where you want to go.</p>
      <p>Declaring a salary has tax and legal implications. A salary is different from taking a distribution (covered in the next section). You are taxed doubly on what you take as your salary versus what you take out as a distribution. You may think, &#8220;I have an idea, I&#8217;ll just take everything out as a distribution.&#8221; This is a great way to have the IRS show up at your door.</p>
      <p>The way it works is you must declare a &#8220;reasonable&#8221; salary for yourself. Yep, that&#8217;s the rule. What constitutes reasonable? Well, a lot of things, too much to cover here, but it&#8217;s a fairly straight-forward process. Ultimately, if you go this route finding a salary for yourself is something you need to discuss with your accountant. Their counsel will be invaluable and at the point when you need them will not be cost-prohibitive.</p>
      <p>Here&#8217;s a quick example of how taking a salary for yourself works, and remember I was set up as an S Corporation so your situation may be different. In 2010, I took for myself a total of about $55,000 as a gross salary. However, much like a full-time job, my business &#8220;withheld&#8221;<sup>1</sup> the taxes and only transferred the net income ($38,000) into my personal checking account. Then when it came time to pay taxes the money was set aside in my business account ready to send off to the IRS.</p>
      <h3>Distributions</h3>
      <p>Distributions are distributions of profit. They are an official channel by which you can get money from your business for yourself. You can utilize these however you want. Perhaps you set it to where you pay yourself $2,000 each month in salary and then draw an additional $500 as a distribution. It&#8217;s really up to <del>you</del> whatever your accountant tells you to do.</p>
      <p>The way I used distributions was irregular. Sometimes I took them after a healthy financial period; or during the holidays or a vacation I might take a distribution to pay for presents or fun vacation things.</p>
      <p>What&#8217;s most important is to set your salary correctly, and then make sure distributions fall in line with the &#8220;reasonableness&#8221; of everything else.</p>
      <h3>Taxes</h3>
      <p>Before I jumped in, taxes were the biggest black hole. I knew I had to pay them but was unsure of how it worked and how much it would cost. And going to a &#8220;How to Start Your Own Business&#8221; seminar didn&#8217;t make things any clearer either. The best way to fill in the blanks is to sit down with an accountant and have them go over everything with you. They will review your current state of affairs, what you&#8217;re planning to do, and suggest how to structure your company, how much you can expect to pay in taxes, salary, and everything else.</p>
      <p>Because of the many variables that come into play here the best I can offer is to show you how much I paid and when I paid it. You can see the numbers in <em>Chapters 7 &#38; 8.</em> I paid company payroll taxes four times a year at the end of the month following each quarter (e.g. January to March is Quarter 1 and the payroll taxes for Quarter 1 are due by April 30th). I paid federal taxes, state taxes, and city and county taxes. The regional tax rates will vary depending on where you live. </p>
      <p>Overall, taxes are not that scary, but I&#8217;ll tell you what <em>is</em> scary &#8212; being late on a tax payment. I can be a bit lackadaisical when it comes to paying bills, and I got into a bad habit with my mobile bill of always paying bills late. It never mattered because there were no late penalties and it would eventually just rollover to the next bill. Taxes work differently. The IRS will not rollover your bill. You will face immediate penalties. Don&#8217;t make mistakes here.</p>
      <h3>Accounting</h3>
      <p>Keep track of any expense related to accounting services as these are qualified deductions. I don&#8217;t really know if these are different from any other deductions, I just give the numbers to my accountant and I never have to worry about it. This is why I recommend having an accountant.</p>
    </div>
    <div class="footnotes">
      <ol class="footnote-list">
        <li class="footnote">1. This is in quotation marks because you are the one that has to be disciplined to keep it in your business account and not spend it on something else.</li>
      </ol>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
