<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Taking Care of Yourself</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">

    <div class="title-area">
      <p class="chapter-number"><em class="sky">chapter five</em></p>
      <h1 class="navy">Taking Care of Yourself</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="body-copy">
      <p>Consider this chapter my admonition to be thinking about and planning for your future. Because if you&#8217;re freelancing full-time the only one looking out for you is you.</p>
      <h3>Professional development</h3>
      <p>Continuing education is a part of most jobs and it&#8217;s good to set aside some money to be intentional about it. This could be anything from an online course for learning a new skill, to attending a conference to be professionally inspired. As long as expenses are clearly related to professional development these can be classified as write-offs.</p>
      <h3>Investment</h3>
      <p>When business is going well you&#8217;ll discover a pile of unused cash in your account. This will make you happy. Use it wisely. I decided to bootstrap a startup with a friend. There are other types of investments &#8212; purchasing better hardware or software, stocking up on assets, developing sales pipelines or new products, etc. Of course with all of this remember to save money for future dry spells. They will come.</p>
      <p>There are also options for traditional retirement planning, albeit the go-it-on-your-own version &#8212; Solo 401(k)s, Simple IRAs and more. TD Ameritrade is a place where you can start: <a class="url" href="https://www.tdameritrade.com/retirement-planning.page">tdameritrade.com/retirement-planning.page</a> [accessed August 22, 2016]</p>
      <p>If you&#8217;re young you tend to think you&#8217;re invincible and that you will have plenty of time in the future to figure out your retirement. <em>Mistake!</em> You&#8217;re already wasting valuable time. The longer you wait to start retirement planning the sorrier you&#8217;ll be. I recommend the book &#8220;Money for Something&#8221; by Matt Henderson as a starting point: <a class="url" href="https://www.moneyforsomethingbook.com">moneyforsomethingbook.com</a> [accessed August 22, 2016]</p>
      <p>And please note by &#8220;retirement&#8221; I don&#8217;t mean that time in the future when you get to finally sit around and do nothing. If you&#8217;re interested in freelancing full-time then the traditional model of retirement probably doesn&#8217;t interest you much. This is more along the lines of capitalizing on the time equals growth principle of investing. </p>
      <p>I&#8217;m barely in my 30s but I know already circumstances can change faster than we can imagine. It&#8217;s wise to at least begin to explore what a future &#8220;retirement&#8221; might look like. And I can assure you it probably won&#8217;t be learn the latest JavaScript framework and totally kill it.</p>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
