<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Client Work</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">

    <div class="title-area">
      <p class="chapter-number"><em class="sky">chapter six</em></p>
      <h1 class="navy">Client Work</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="body-copy">
      <p>The majority of my income in 2010 &#38; 2011 came through client services, and majority is an understatement &#8212; it was 99.9% of my income. You&#8217;ll see the tiniest blip of product revenue in 2011, but for all practical purposes I received no help from product-based revenue. Though I can assure you it wasn&#8217;t from lack of trying!</p>
      <p>In lieu of writing a book within a book, allow me to cover generally with a few paragraphs how I priced jobs that brought in my revenue.</p>
      <p>My rate varied from about $125/hr. to $175/hr. Sometimes I would offer discounts for non-profits, at one point the rate was $195/hr. For the most part this worked, but it didn&#8217;t generate huge profits. Also, I realized I could raise my rates and work fewer hours, or lower them and work more hours, but in the end it was more or less the same total. Herein lies the worst advertisement for hourly-based pricing models that one can find. Unless you&#8217;re charging lawyer-level rates at lawyer-level quantities you&#8217;ll always be hustling.</p>
      <p>There are other models besides hourly of course &#8212; charging by the week or month for example. Typically, I would charge a fixed cost for a project that was an internal calculation of my rate multiplied by how long I thought it would take me.</p>
      <p>Hourly rates are great for starting out, but if you&#8217;re serious about growing your business you&#8217;ll want to capture upsides<sup>1</sup> and decouple the money you make from your time.</p>
      <p>Take for example how Sandwich Video talks about their pricing on their <em>How it Works</em> page:</p>
      <p class="block-quote">&#8220;&#8230;when we work with these clients, we&#8217;ll structure payment as part cash and part equity and/or revenue share based on sales.&#8221;</p>
      <p class="block-quote"><a class="url" href="http://sandwichvideo.com/how-it-works/">sandwichvideo.com/how-it-works</a> [accessed August 22, 2016]</p>
      <p>Also, if you would like to be really inspired to raise your rates read this post by Patrick Mackenzie:</p>
      <p class="block-quote">&#8220;First consulting gig: $100/hr Second consulting gig: $4k/wk Third consulting gig: $8k/wk&#8221;</p>
      <p class="block-quote"><a class="url" href="http://kalzumeus.com/2015/05/01/talking-about-money">kalzumeus.com/2015/05/01/talking-about-money</a> [accessed August 22, 2016]</p>
      <p>I won&#8217;t spoil the rest for you :)</p>
      <p>Again, this topic could be a separate book in itself so I&#8217;ll stop here. Take yourself seriously and don&#8217;t be afraid to price the value you provide accordingly.</p>
      <p>Lastly, you&#8217;ll see one additional category in the &#8220;Revenue&#8221; section of <em>Table 3</em> &#8212; a personal loan. Hopefully you&#8217;ll never have to do this, but there were a couple times in 2011 when I was running out of money and had to augment the cash flow from our own personal savings account. It doesn&#8217;t feel good, but you hope that it&#8217;s a temporary band-aid and not a new revenue strategy.</p>
    </div>
    <div class="footnotes">
      <ol class="footnote-list">
        <li class="footnote">1. A business-y jargon word that essentially means you can have a piece of the profits that your work generates for your client, sort of.</li>
      </ol>
    </div>


  </body>
</html>
