<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Conclusion</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">

    <div class="title-area">
      <p class="chapter-number"><em class="sky">chapter nine</em></p>
      <h1 class="navy">Conclusion</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="body-copy">
      <p>If you combine the total average monthly expenses and revenue for 2010 &#38; 2011, and then average those numbers you get a two-year monthly expense average of $8,859 and a two-year monthly revenue average of $8,832. So, over the course of two years the business lost $27 each month! It&#8217;s wild how break even I was over the course of the two years. Although of course I was paying myself a salary, so it&#8217;s not like I <em>personally</em> didn&#8217;t make any money. But neither were my rookie and sophomore year as a freelancer ones for the record books.</p>
      <p>That said, I hope you&#8217;re not discouraged by the small profit margins, or in my case lack of profit margins, or by anything else in this book. Lots of people freelance successfully and you can be one of them. It&#8217;s not impossible and once you&#8217;ve done it for long enough everything about it seems as normal as having a &#8220;regular&#8221; full-time job. </p>
      <p>And it does get easier to become profitable as I can attest to now. It&#8217;s just that the road to do so, at least for me, is paved with mistakes.</p>
      <h3>The End</h3>
      <p>I hope you find the real-world numbers helpful as you plan your own endeavor. If you have further questions about content in this book or freelancing in general please don&#8217;t hesitate to email me: hello@davidyeiser.com.</p>
      <p><em>Happy freelancing!</em></p>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
