<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Basic Expenses</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">

    <div class="title-area">
      <p class="chapter-number"><em class="sky">chapter one</em></p>
      <h1 class="navy">Basic Expenses</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="body-copy">
      <p>Before I begin talking about expenses I want to cover a couple things that may or may not be assumed. One, you should have a separate bank account for your business finances. All deposits and expenses should run through this account. If you purchase something for your business with your personal account, that&#8217;s fine, you can reimburse yourself via your business account. But as a rule, there should be a very strict &#8220;wall&#8221; between the accounts.</p>
      <p>Two, you will need to establish a legal entity for business activity. Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) can help you determine the best setup for your business and do the entire registration process for you. Throughout this book I will reference the need to get an accountant a lot. I&#8217;m not trying to defer responsibility, I just highly recommend their services &#8212; it&#8217;s complicated, frustrating, and time-consuming to be your own accountant. Your time is more effective on other parts of your business.</p>
      <h3>Bills</h3>
      <p>Bills for the most part should be manageable. For me, and I imagine for a lot of people with a family to support, the largest bill was health insurance. In 2010, my typical monthly health insurance bill was $717 per month. In 2011, that went down to $615. The cost of health insurance can vary wildly depending on your region and a myriad of other factors. A direct way to find out your costs is to call an insurance agency and get a quote on health insurance. Then you&#8217;ll at least have an idea of the costs involved. The price is going to be different from a company-issued health insurance plan if that&#8217;s what you&#8217;re used to.</p>
      <p>The mobile phone bill was the next closest which came in around $150 per month. Later when I got my own office, the rent added $225 per month to the bills and became the new runner-up in the high bill contest.</p>
      <p>Most of the other bills were smaller &#8212; monthly fees for service-based software tools. However, it&#8217;s important to pay attention to your monthly subscriptions as these can add up fast. The first day on the job you don&#8217;t need to go out and sign up for a bunch of software services to show yourself and the world that you&#8217;ve made it. </p>
      <p>With anything that you plan to commit to financially on a regular basis, especially when first starting out, I would ask yourself if you really <em>need</em> it or if you just want it because that&#8217;s what you think serious professionals have.</p>
      <h3>Food &#38; Coffee</h3>
      <p>Companies offer an array of benefits to their employees. Silicon Valley perks are near excessive. A mistake I made, and one you shouldn&#8217;t make, is I thought I could just decide to grant myself via my company whatever perks I wanted to. So if I made the decision that my company was going to buy me coffee and lunch everyday then <em>voil&#224;</em> &#8212; fabulous company perks for myself.</p>
      <p>Unfortunately it doesn&#8217;t work that way. There are very strict guidelines and regulations to follow when it comes to company &#8220;perks.&#8221; Generally speaking, your company can pay for the meal (or coffee) if it&#8217;s related directly to business &#8212; e.g. meeting with a client &#8212; but other than that it should come from your own pocket.</p>
      <h3>Hardware &#38; Software</h3>
      <p>Use your own discretion with this category. You likely know what hardware and software you need and this shouldn&#8217;t be complicated to plan in advance. I didn&#8217;t buy software I didn&#8217;t need and was somewhat conservative in this area. However I will say don&#8217;t skimp on hardware. Anything that makes the computer faster is worth it, and plan on upgrading your hardware every few years. The laptop I purchased when I first started freelancing became the family laptop a few years later &#8212; complete with a nice food patina and regular showings of <em>Baby Einstein&#8482;</em> and <em>Mighty Machines&#8482;.</em> </p>
      <h3>Miscellaneous</h3>
      <p>I created this category as a catch-all. Those stamps you bought to mail your taxes, the candy for your office bowl, the cleaning supplies for the office sink, etc. Now I categorize these types of expenses with better precision (you&#8217;ll see a drop for this category from 2010 to 2011) but back then I just kind of lumped everything together. I recommend you to do the best you can to avoid categories like this as the more specific you are with your expenses the better.</p>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
