<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Cost of Doing Business</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">

    <div class="title-area">
      <p class="chapter-number"><em class="sky">chapter two</em></p>
      <h1 class="navy">Cost of Doing Business</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="body-copy">
      <p>This chapter covers categories that are considered costs incurred while doing business. It&#8217;s not exclusive, the prior chapter covered a few as well, like hardware and software. But this chapter focuses on the ones that were specific to what I was doing. In common vernacular you&#8217;ll hear these types of costs referred to as write-offs, more officially known as a deduction.</p>
      <p>On this note, it may be helpful to talk about what a deduction is. A deduction (or write-off) does not mean that it&#8217;s free. If you travel for business and stay in the Ritz-Carlton and eat buckets of sushi every night the government is not going to just reimburse you for that at the end of the year. </p>
      <p>What these types of expenses <em>do</em> do is adjust your income. The amount of money that you are taxed on is not your business revenue, but your business revenue minus your expenses. A deduction is part of the expense total that is taken from your gross revenue before you&#8217;re taxed.</p>
      <p>I found Wikipedia&#8217;s summary to be helpful:<sup>1</sup></p>
      <p class="block-quote">In income tax calculation, a write-off is the itemized deduction of an item&#8217;s value from a person&#8217;s taxable income. Thus, if a person in the United States has a taxable income of $50,000 per year, a $100 telephone for business use would lower the taxable income to $49,900. If that person is in a 25% tax bracket, the tax due would be lowered by $25. Thus the net cost of the telephone is $75 instead of $100.</p>
      <p class="block-quote"><a class="url" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Write-off">en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Write-off</a> [accessed August 22, 2016]</p>
      <p>So what constitutes a write-off? The IRS does not maintain a list of individual items for reference, but rather gives general guidelines as to how to determine if an item is deductible or not. The official wording can be found in U.S. Code Title 26 &#167; 62 (a) 1: </p>
      <p class="block-quote">The deductions allowed ... are attributable to a trade or business carried on by the taxpayer, if such trade or business does not consist of the performance of services by the taxpayer as an employee.</p>
      <p class="block-quote"><a class="url" href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/26/62">law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/26/62</a> [accessed August 22, 2016]</p>
      <p>This is a little confusing, but essentially means if the purchase is a cost of doing business then it can be counted as a deduction.</p>
      <p>Much more could be covered here but the best counsel I have is talk to an accountant about this subject. I cover the importance of having an accountant in the next chapter, but if you&#8217;re already convinced you need one they are not hard to find. Ask your friends, someone you know probably can refer you to a trusted accountant.</p>
      <h3>Travel</h3>
      <p>Depending on your line of work, where you live, etc. you may have to travel a little or a lot. And the distance may be very long (flight to a different city) or more regional (a drive across town). I had a client in 2010 that required a lot of flight travel, now I barely leave my office. As long as the travel is work related, that is from your office to wherever required to go for business purposes (a regular commute from your home to your office doesn&#8217;t count), you can reimburse yourself from your business for all the costs incurred. Talk to an accountant and they can give you specifics on the appropriate and legal ways to handle reimbursements.<sup>2</sup></p>
      <h3>Trade assets</h3>
      <p>This is a broad category, but anything I needed to complete a job and purchased went in this category (e.g., fonts, icons, stock photography); as did subscriptions to trade magazines, design or programming books, and things of this nature.</p>
      <h3>Advertising</h3>
      <p>I had a very small ad budget. The money I spent in this category was for ads on other websites advertising some of the digital products I was selling. My best advice is do all that you can ahead of time to know your market. What I mean by that is have the best idea you can have on how much advertising is required in your line of work to do business and how effective it is. For me the most effective form of advertising was word of mouth.</p>
      <h3>Contract Work</h3>
      <p>When you&#8217;re running a one-person show you may find yourself in situations where there&#8217;s too much work to do and you need to pay someone to help you with it. The process is fairly straight-forward: if you&#8217;re paying an individual more than $600 then you need to give them a W-9 form. They fill out the W-9 and give it back to you. Then, using the information from the W-9, you must fill out a 1099 form, submit it to the appropriate institutions and issue a copy to the individual.</p>
      <p>A 1099 is the official form and channel by which you let the IRS know you paid this person a certain amount of money. After that it&#8217;s up to them to report it on their end. For you, it&#8217;s just classified as an expense.</p>
      <h3>Commission</h3>
      <p>Having someone &#8220;sell&#8221; you into a job can be a great way to get your first big job. Especially if your sales skills are lacking. Selling is an art and much to my dismay it&#8217;s just as necessary to winning a job as doing quality work. Sometimes it&#8217;s all that matters. People are people.</p>
      <p>If you do have someone sell for you, you&#8217;ll likely need to pay them a commission. You can treat this the same as contract work because that&#8217;s what it is essentially. Same process as outlined in the contractor section above.</p>
      <p>You&#8217;ll notice that my expense numbers for commission may seem high, (<em>Table 1</em>, specifically), but that should always correspond with a proportional increase in revenue or else something has gone horribly wrong.</p>

    </div>
    <div class="footnotes">
      <ol class="footnote-list">
        <li class="footnote">1. Intuit has a visual walk-through of the process which you can find on their blog: <a class="url" href="http://blog.turbotax.intuit.com/2010/12/11/what-is-a-tax-write-off/">blog.turbotax.intuit.com/2010/12/11/what-is-a-tax-write-off</a> [accessed August 22, 2016]</li>
        <li class="footnote">2. For example with driving you reimburse yourself a fixed cost set by the IRS times the number of miles driven.</li>
      </ol>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
