<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Copyright</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">

    <div class="body-copy">
      <p><em>Copyright Notice</em></p>
      <p>First published by David Yeiser Co. in 2015.</p>
      <p>This second edition published in 2016.</p>
      <p>Copyright &#169; 2015, 2016 David Yeiser. All rights reserved.</p>
      <p>No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form, or by any means, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose without written permission from the publisher.</p>
      <p><em>Limitation of Liability &#38; Disclaimer of Warranty</em></p>
      <p>While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. </p>
      <p>The advice, strategies, and anecdotes contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.</p>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
