<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link href="base.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
  </head>
  <body xml:lang="en-US">
    
    <div class="title-area">
      <h2>Introduction</h2>
    </div>

    <div class="body-copy">
      <p>In 2003, I inadvertently discovered web standards &#8212; or the method of building websites with CSS &#38; HTML rather than table markup and buckets of JavaScript. I was hooked. I knew immediately this is what I wanted to do for a career. I was going to be a web designer. But not <em>just</em> a web designer, I was going to run my own business as a full-time, freelance web designer. </p>
      <p>It took a while, but in 2009 I wrapped up my full-time job<sup>1</sup> and embarked on a career of freelancing &#8212; in my mind the pinnacle of professional freedom. Years and years of hard work had finally paid off and my dream was about to become a reality.</p>
      <p>In the two and a half years that followed, I experienced feast and famine, freedom to work on what you want, having no freedom because you have bills to pay, loving Mondays, dreading holidays and vice versa.</p>
      <p>In the summer of 2012, I took a break from freelancing and took a full-time job with a startup in California. I worked at this startup for two years. Now I&#8217;m back to freelancing full-time and the second time is going much smoother than the first.</p>
      <p>Things of this nature are usually easier and better the second time around. Past experiences give you a head start &#8212; you know the effort and resources required, and you know what not to do. Hopefully you are wiser. While some of what you learn can only be gained through experience, other aspects can be illuminated with simple knowledge. And that conveniently brings me to the purpose of this book: <em>Full-time Freelancer</em> was written for those thinking about going out on their own but are unsure of the costs involved for doing so.</p>
      <p>This is not a how to calculate your hourly rate pamphlet, nor is it a how to freelance successfully motivational book, it is very simply a comprehensive look at how much money I made and spent in 2010 &#38; 2011. I cover the expenses involved in freelancing full-time &#8212; taxes, bills, paying yourself a salary, accounting fees, paying contractors and commission, and others small and not so small &#8212; as well as the revenue I made as full-time freelancer.</p>
      <p>My hope is that with actual, real-world data this short book will shed light on an area that can be sorely confusing for someone who has never experienced it.</p>
      <h3>A Brief Note</h3>
      <p>This book is written from the perspective of a web designer. But the principles and the finances involved should translate to many other industries; especially if it involves digital work. To any person wanting to make the jump to independence this book should clarify at least <em>some</em> of the unknowns no matter which line of business you&#8217;re planning to go in to.</p>
    </div>
    <div class="footnotes">
      <ol class="footnote-list">
        <li class="footnote">1. I had three different full-time jobs in the intervening years.</li>
      </ol>
    </div>

  </body>
</html>
